- [Narrator] Shortly before midnight on July the 22nd, 1991,two Milwaukee police officers were flagged down in their patrol car by a man with a pair of handcuffs dangling from one wrist.The police had no idea that this bizarre encounter would lead to the arrestof one of the most prolific serial killers in US history. - That night, people were afraid.People were whispering under their breaths, "It's the Devil, it's the Devil." - [Narrator] The man had escapedfrom a small one-bedroom apartment on North 25th Street. When the officers went to investigate,they found themselves in a living nightmare. - They saw the body parts and then one of the officers said he heard a scream.Then he realized later he was the one who screamed when he saw the body. - [Narrator] Without detection, 31-year-old Jeffrey Dahmerhad killed 17 young men across a 13-year period. - He hasn't got the same level of repulsion and shockat dead bodies or mutilated bodies that most of us have. It was just another aspect of his life.- [Narrator] Jeffrey Dahmer had etched his name in history as one of the world's most evil killers.(dramatic music)The name Jeffrey Dahmer has become synonymous with evil. Between 1978 and 1991,he killed 17 young men and boys by drugging them before strangling them to death.As the revelations of the murders came to light, it was the behavior of Dahmer once he'd killed his victimsthat really stunned the world, with stories of necrophilia and cannibalism.The first journalist to arrive at the crime scene was Anne E. Schwartz. - It wasn't a gory crime scene.It was really quite antiseptic. It was a very simple one-bedroom with a kitchen, a living room,and it looked like a regular single guy lived there. Some dishes in the sink, but by and large,this was not some chamber of horrors like people will describe it, certainly not at first look.Once detectives and officers started searching further, that's when they found out the actual horror was in that apartment.- [Narrator] The story of this macabre killer begins 30 years before his arrest.Jeffrey Dahmer was born in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, on May the 21st, 1960.The family moved to Iowa before settling in Ohio in 1966.- He lived with his parents, who were constantly, constantly, as he put it,at each other's throats. His mother appeared to have beenthis raging bundle of neurotic behavior. The parents were constantly fighting and screaming.And Dahmer himself evidently, throughout much of his early life,was completely, completely ignored by both of them, who were so caught up in their own psychological turmoil.- Jeffrey Dahmer never really made close social links with any of his peers. He was a little bit odd.And if you speak to his school friends at the time, he didn't seem to have a lot of empathy for other children.So, when children would fall over in the playground or get hurt or cry, he didn't appear to be affected by thatand would sometimes laugh at them. So, something wasn't quite right with a young Jeffrey Dahmer.- [Narrator] Feeling ostracized by his family and classmates, Dahmer spent a lot of time playing alonein the woods surrounding his Ohio home. - Well, he had a really morbid curiosity with deathfrom quite a young age, and this started with a fairly innocent insect collection, and he would keep the bodies of insectsinside jars full of chemicals. This soon progressed. He would go fishing and he was interestedin what the fish looked like on the inside, so he would chop up the fish to have a look at this.- Dahmer took his fish and cut it open. He was fascinated with the inside of the fish.And one of his little friends asked him, "Jeffrey, what are you doing?And he said, "Just look at it." - And this escalates to the pointthat he's apparently killing stray dogs and decapitating them.- One of the young boys in the neighborhood was walking in the woods behind Dahmer's house when Dahmer was a teenagerand he came across the body of a dead dog and it was mutilated and it was nailed to a tree.- [Harold] So, there's some early interest in animal anatomythat blossoms into this very, very dark obsessionand then somehow becomes tangled up with his own sexuality.- [Narrator] Dahmer continued to struggle to fit in at high school and turned to alcohol from a young age.- Well, Dahmer started drinking when he was at school and one of his former classmates remembered that he used to come in with a cup.And he didn't have tea or coffee in this cup, he had scotch whiskey in it. So, this was quite a disturbing behavior for a teenager.- There's a thought that in hindsight you ask why more people didn't try to intervene.You've got a kid coming drunk to school. But back in the '70s when Dahmer's coming to school intoxicated,nobody thinks, "Gee, we better make sure "we take care of this "because what if he turns out to be a serial killer?"- [Narrator] In the summer of 1978, Dahmer's parents finally divorced.- The breakdown of Jeffrey Dahmer's parents' marriage was quite a tough time for him. His parents were at each other's throats.It was not an amicable divorce at all and each of them was forcing him to side with them,so he felt very much torn between his parents. So, this was a real source of conflict for him.And I think at this time, children often who have these experiences will retreat into themselves.They will preoccupy themselves with things that they're interested in and will lose themselves in their own fantasy world,and I think that's very much what happened with Dahmer. - [Narrator] Having just recently graduated from high school, Dahmer soon had no one around him at all.- Well, in 1978, Jeffrey Dahmer was 18. His mother had gone away with his younger brotherand his father was living in a hotel, so he's alone and he's ruminating and he's fantasizingand things are going to take a turn for the worse quite soon after this.- [Narrator] On June the 18th, 1978, Dahmer's fantasy world collided with the real onewhen he pulled over to pick up a 19-year-old hitchhiker called Steven Hicks.- [Harold] Dahmer picked him up and invited him back to his house to have some drinks and, I guess, maybe smoke some dope.- They were in the basement of his parents' home, they had had sex, and then Steven Hicks wanted to leave.And that was when Dahmer just wanted so badly to have company. Sounds like such a textbook psychological thing,abandonment syndrome, but this was at the heart of what made him so needy for company.- And then when the guy said he wanted to leave, Dahmer clubbed him on the back of the head with a barbelland then strangled him, then ultimately disposed of the body,removed all the flesh, and eventually dissolved it in acidand pulverized the bones with a sledgehammer. - This is a really, really brutal crime.And he disposes of the body parts in the woods behind his house. And that's a really symbolic place for Jeffrey Dahmer,'cause this is a place where he's dismembered animals before, where he's displayed mutilated dogs on tree trunks.So, we're seeing that this place is special to him. - [Narrator] Dahmer had experienced taking the life of another human for the first time.- I think that the first murder is a real milestone for Jeffrey Dahmer. So, he knows now that he's capable of this.He knows that he's capable of taking someone else's life. So, it's not just a fantasy anymore, it's now a reality.He's gone from harming animals to harming people and he's not gonna stop. - He's not desperate, but he becomes accustomed to it.He becomes ready to kill again and just kill and kill and kill and kill until he gets caught.- [Narrator] But it wasn't until 13 years later in August 1991 that Dahmer was finally apprehendedafter one of his potential victims escaped from his Milwaukee apartment. Once in custody,Dahmer confessed to killing 17 young men and boys. The man whose job it was to prosecute the relentless killerwas Milwaukee District Attorney Mike McCann. - The word evil doesn't come up very often, it just doesn't.Guilty, not guilty? Did he do it, didn't he do it? Culpability, yes, but not often evil because evil is almost a moral issue.That word came up with Dahmer. You couldn't help see what he did, innocent people, strangers,to take for a couple of hours of sex, to take a human being's life. That's so evil, so evil!- [Narrator] Dahmer's case made headlines across the world after the details of his grisly confession were leaked.- A "New York Times" reporter compromise the integrity of a worker at our building and got a copy of the confession.It was a detailed 38-page confession, so the details of the gory things he had done again captured people's interests.So, that's how it rapidly became a matter of intense interest. - [Narrator] The confession outlined the lifeof a deranged serial killer. After murdering Stephen Hicks and desecrating his body in 1978,Dahmer didn't kill again for nine years. After dropping out of Ohio State Universityafter just one semester, he was spending most of his days drinking until his father urged him to enlist in the US Army.- The alcohol continued as a theme when he joined the Army and he moved to Germany.One of his former colleagues remembers him just sitting in his room, drinking gin all day long,not even leaving his room to eat. So, there was a real dependency on alcohol.- [Narrator] In 1981, 21-year-old Dahmer was discharged from the Armyafter his drinking rendered him incapable of serving. After spending a month sleeping roughon the beaches of Florida, he returned to Ohio, but his father had had enough and shipped him offto start a new life in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. - He was sent to live with his grandmother,who is the one adult apparently he had something approaching a normal affection for.It was there he really embarked on this career of horror. - [Narrator] By 1986, Dahmer had been arresteda couple of times for exposing himself in public, once in front of a group of children.The hopeless alcoholic had managed to find work at a local chocolate factory in Milwaukeeand was frequenting gay bars and bathhouses. - I think being homosexual affected Dahmer in two ways.Firstly, it was a source of shame for him because it was quite a stigmatized social identityat the time. But also, it enabled him an opportunity when it came to his killing behavior.So, being homosexual at this time, it was something that happened in the shadows. It was something that happened underground.And this was the ideal place for someone like him to go hunting. - [Narrator] It was this exposure to the gay scenethat seemed to reawaken the dark sexual urges inside of him. And by September 1987,over nine years since the murder of Steven Hicks, Jeffrey Dahmer was ready to kill again.- His idea was to drug people and keep them with him so that they wouldn't answer back to him,they wouldn't argue with him, they wouldn't fight him, they would stay with him. That's what he wanted. He wanted companionship.So, he would go to the bars on Milwaukee's Near South Side and he would have conversations with people in these bars.And when he was talking to these people, these prospective victims, he would say,"So what was it like when you came out? "How was your family about it?" So, if your response was, "Oh, my family has been great,they're so supportive, I'm very close to my parents," that person wasn't gonna be a victim.But if the person answered, "My parents aren't speaking anymore, "I'm estranged from my family, I'm kind of on my own now,"that was the perfect victim for Jeffrey Dahmer because he wanted to choose people who wouldn't be missed.- [Narrator] Between September 1987 and March 1988, Dahmer killed three men, the youngest a 14-year-old boywho he paid to pose for nude photographs before drugging and strangling him to death.He would dissolve the bodies in acid. - He cleverly developed a program to destroy the bodies,get rid of the bodies, left no evidence. This was a very clever killer, very clever killer.- Dahmer would dissolve his victims, presumably to make it easier to dispose of them.Dissolving tissue and chemicals can certainly interfere with identifying it as human tissue.It'll interfere with DNA. You're really left predominantly with skeletal remains to try and identify features such as age, sex, race.- [Narrator] Dahmer murdered two of the victims at his grandmother's house, where he was living.- His grandmother became aware that he was bringing these young guys back to her house,I mean, she thought for gay sex. Obviously, she had no inkling of the atrocitieshe was committing on their bodies, although she was complaining also about a foul odor that she noticed.- [Narrator] On September the 25th, 1988, Dahmer moved into his own apartmenton North 25th Street in Milwaukee and didn't wait long before attacking again.The very next day, September the 26th, he enticed a 13-year-old boy back to his homeand drugged him. - One of the methods that Dahmer used to subdue his victimswas to use benzodiazepines, the same family of drugs as Valium.He'd put them in drinks that would make you woozy, sleepy, and then eventually go unconscious.- [Narrator] Dahmer sexually assaulted the boy. But somehow, possibly due to Dahmer passing out drunk,the 13-year-old escaped and went to the police. In January 1989, he was convicted of sexual assault,but the sentencing was delayed until May, during which time an unrelenting Dahmer,unbeknownst to the authorities, managed to claim a fifth victim.The 29-year-old served 10 months in prison. But when he was released in March 1990,he picked up right where he left off. - So, Jeffrey Dahmer really did ramp up his offending.The scale and the nature of his behavior became all the more grotesque.So, he wasn't just killing people, dismembering them, and then disposing of their bodies.He started to do some really bizarre things. - He was in the process of constructingsome hideously diabolical shrine in his bedroomout of the skulls and skeletons of some of his victims. It's almost as though some bizarre archaic thinghad broken through and he was performing or creating some sort of ancient human sacrificial templein this little Milwaukee apartment. - [Narrator] In 1990, Dahmer killed another four young men.His MO was becoming more and more polished. - He would offer his victims moneyto go back to his apartment with him to take pictures, nude photographs of them,and then perhaps to have sex. Every single one of his victims went with him willingly.And he would offer them a drink. And once he found out what they wanted to drink, he kept a lot of things on hand, different kinds of alcohol,and that's when he would put a drug in it that would put them to sleep or that would relax themso that they would pass out. - They would pass out. He would then have sex with them while they were passed out, do with them as he wished,but of course they couldn't do to him. Then as they approached recovery, coming out of it, he would strangle them to death. - [Narrator] It seemed as though Dahmer got a thrillnot from the murder, but from the dead bodies of his victims. - Dahmer liked necrophilia.He liked sex with unconscious people. He wasn't a slasher in the sense that he took delight in killing.His purpose was sex with these people, company with these people. That's hard to believe. - He would commit necrophiliac sex actson the corpses, dismember the corpses, dissolve parts of the bodies in these vats of acid he had,keep certain organs in his refrigerator, some of which he would actually cannibalize.- Dahmer said that the cannibalism that he engaged in was borne out of a curiosity.He wanted to find out, first of all, what that would be like. He also said that there was an elementof wanting to make these people a part of him so they would be with him forever.- Dahmer, from the beginning, was driven by this terror of being alone.He said he killed his first victim, Stephen Hicks, when Hicks said he had to go and Dahmer didn't wanna be alone.There's some desire, which is part of normal sexuality. You love somebody, somebody will say,"Oh, I love you so much, I wanna eat you up." With normal people, that's obviously metaphorical,but it does express some desire to be so close to the person that you want to incorporate them into,you wanna merge with 'em. With somebody like Dahmer, that becomes this very literal horror.- [Narrator] And the horror only became worse when Dahmer began experimenting with his semi-conscious victims.- He would drill holes in their skulls and put muriatic acid inside to see if he could get them to a zombie stateso that he could keep them alive and subservient to him. - It's essentially an amateur versionof attempting to perform a lobectomy or a lobotomy, but it would be an incredibly unpleasantand damaging thing to do to someone's brain. If you affect the frontal lobes,you will affect personality, potentially make somebody docile. If he's less accurate,you could essentially cause a stroke that could cause paralysis, speech problems. It really very much dependson which part of the brain is actually damaged. - But of course, that didn't workand his victims died one after another. Hearing about thatis the stuff of horror movies and the fact that it was happening in a citywhere we were known for manufacturing and beerand a very good Midwestern work ethic, tight families,this isn't the kind of thing that happens here. - [Narrator] In May 1991,31-year-old Jeffrey Dahmer was in his killing prime. He'd already murdered 11 menand had begun collecting bones and skulls from his victims and cannibalizing their organs.What woulda been a nightmare for most was a fantasy for him, as he carefully went about his killingsunder the radar of the police and the people of Milwaukee. - Jeffrey Dahmer had a job in a local chocolate factory.And I think, for him, it enabled him to maintain a facade of normality. He was just an average Joe,a regular guy who went to work every day. - I think he killed so many people without being caughtbecause of the fact that he looked like everyone else. He did what successful serial killers do.He blended. They blend in with society. Now, he was a Caucasian maleliving in a predominantly African-American neighborhood, but he didn't talk to anybody, he didn't bother anybody.He was barely someone people noticed, barely noticed.He also was targeting people who he found out might not be missed.- For most people, if they were to commit the type of acts that Jeffrey Dahmer did, they would in no way be able to function normally,but Jeffrey Dahmer was not most people. He hasn't got the same level of repulsion and shockat dead bodies or mutilated bodies that most of us have. It was just another aspect of his life.- It was not known that we had a serial slayer loose in our city. We did not know because he was so cleverlydisposing of the bodies. The families were reporting the sons were missing, but the police were not finding bodies.And not infrequently, young men, something happens in their life, they just up and leave town. That happens enough that police don't get worried.If it's a woman, they'll immediately commit resources to investigate, but young men they don't. - [Narrator] But on May the 26th, 1991,Dahmer came agonizingly close to capture after an encounter with a 14-year-old boy.- Dahmer had taken Konerak Sinthasomphone, a young Asian male who he found attractive,he met him in the mall, offered him money to go back to his apartment. He went and he began to work the ritual.Dahmer would drug him and then he began the process of this crude lobotomy and he had drilled a holein this young man's head. He took a break. He ran out to get more beer. While he was gone, Konerak ran outta the apartment.He was naked, he was completely dazed, and he was running up the alley next to Dahmer's apartment building.A woman in another apartment building saw him running up the alleyand said, "There's a boy running up the alley. "Something's going on." And then these women call the police.- And then Dahmer appeared. And again, this is another remarkable characteristicof these psychopaths is that they have an ability to maintain a kind of coolnessunder the most extraordinarily high-pressure circumstances.- So, he walked up to the officers, "Good evening, officers." He's very polite, he's sober.And he said, "This is my boyfriend. "He came to stay with me, "we had a little bit too much to drink,"and he ran outta the house." Said, "How old is he?" Dahmer said, "He's 19."And the officers said, "Okay, well, just to make sure, "let's all walk back up to the apartment together."- The cops went in and looked around. They even peeked into the bedroom where there was a decomposing corpse of one of Dahmer's previous victims,but they took such a cursory look at it that they didn't even notice it. - [Narrator] Assuming the couple were having a lovers tiff,the two police officers left Konerak alone with Dahmer in the apartment building.And in the early hours of the morning, he murdered the 14-year-old boy. An opportunity to catch the killer had been missed.- I think that really speaks volumes about the attitudes of the police at the time in terms of ethnic minorities, in terms of young people,in terms of the gay community. And that was another victim that could potentially have been saved.So, there's this terrible thing going on behind closed doors and people just aren't seeing it. People aren't wanting to see it.Even the police are not joining up the dots and finding out what's really going on,so this is allowed to just bubble away and get worse. - [Narrator] After evading capture,Dahmer was free to continue. - There was two sides, really, to Dahmer's pleasurethat he got from killing his victims. So, he was a sadist who enjoys the pain and suffering of other people.And with sadists, that thrill ends when the victim dies. But Dahmer was also something of a necrophiliacwho was interested in having corpses around and doing things with those corpses,and that means that the thrill starts with death. So, he has this continuous fulfillment going onand he's always fully in control, and I think that's what's really at the root of Jeffrey Dahmer. It's power and it's control.And it's the feeling that he has all this knowledge about what he's done and nobody else quite knows what he's up to.- [Narrator] By July 1991, Dahmer's desire to kill had become insatiable.In just 16 days, he murdered four more men, bringing his total number of victims to 17.But Dahmer's reign of terror was about to come to an end. On July the 22nd, he met a man called Tracy Edwards.- While they were together in the apartment, Dahmer threw a handcuff on him.This was now the beginning of his ritual. Dahmer had taken photographs of his victimsin various stages of dismemberment, Polaroids, and those were sitting on the dresser inside the bedroom.They weren't sitting out in the main living room, but there was some speculation that Tracy Edwards had perhaps seen that.And he ran out the out of the apartment in his underwear, ran down the street.And when he saw the police car, Tracy Edwards has said his intention was just to get the handcuff off.That's all he wanted. He stopped these cops to say, "Hey, can you just get this off of me?" So, he stopped and the officers start talking to himabout what he saw. And then they said, "Well, we should probably check this out. "Let's all go back to the apartment."Dahmer answered. And the minute he saw that it was the police, he tried to shut the door on them.The police pushed the door open a bit, they started struggling with him, and then finally he just gave in.And that was when Dahmer was officially finished. He was finished killing and he knew that he was finished.- [Narrator] The police officers immediately arrested Dahmer after finding the remains of some of his victimsin his apartment. - They saw the body parts. And then one of the officers said he heard a scream, then he realized later he was the one who screamedwhen he saw the body, so they knew they were dealing with a very serious offense. Dahmer did not resist, a little slight resistance,but Dahmer was taken into custody and the investigation was initiated. - [Narrator] What followed was an incredible media circuson Dahmer's doorstep, as unbelievable stories about what was being uncovered inside his apartment were revealed.- It was so fantastical that you think people are making it upwhen they're telling you the details. But as it turned out, they weren't making it up.All of the atrocities that we heard about that happened in that apartment really did happen. - The medical examiner who was called to the scenedidn't know what was happening, was so strange. There was a freezer there, body parts in the freezer, called in a hazmat crew.Well, our television stations cover the police radio. When they hear that, they dispatch crews there. And the first day it was local television.Second day, national television. By the third day, it was international television. - They were able to show video of these itemscoming out of the front door of this apartment building that's not usual at a crime scene.Saw a large blue barrel in which we know that Jeffrey Dahmer was trying to dissolve body parts.They had a refrigerator that was holding skulls and also was holding body parts.So, these are coming down the stairs and people were just incredulous to watch it.When I wrote the story for the "Milwaukee Journal" that morning and it was released in the paperabout eight o'clock, I think, in the morning, normally we were an afternoon paper,but we went out early with it because it was such an incredible story. - [Narrator] But no one quite knewthe enormity of the crimes until Dahmer confessed to detectives at the local police station.- When I've spoken to the detectives that were working this case, they have said,"This was not a great whodunit. "This would've been a whodunit "if Jeffrey Dahmer hadn't confessed to everything."- [Mike] When Dahmer was arrested, there were already a number of bodies in his quarters. He gave full confessions to the policedetailing his involvement in 16 separate slayings. Most of the time, he did not know the name of the victims.- When Dahmer remembered a crime that he might not have shared with the detectives,he would have the jail call them, whether it was the middle of the night or the middle of the day, and say,"I remembered something else, please come over." Dahmer had said he wanted to make sure that he didn't forget anythingbecause he wanted those families to have closure. I'm not sure about that.That may be giving Jeffrey Dahmer more credit than he is deserved,but he did claim to want to try and remember so that all of those families would have closure.- One of the interesting things about Dahmer that does differentiate him from other killers of his breedis that he did seem to be capable of a certain degree of remorse and certainly recognize the extent of his depravity.- [Narrator] Although he confessed to killing 16 people in the state of Wisconsin, Dahmer was first charged with four counts of murderon the 25th of July, 1991, and a further 11 counts were added in August.The following month, investigators in Ohio found teeth and bone fragmentsbelonging to Steven Hicks in the woods near Dahmer's family home. A preliminary hearing was set for January 1992.His legal team were going to argue that the killings were the work of a madman. - The issue wasn't going to be, "Did he do it or not?"The issue was going to be, "Was he sane or insane when he did it?" And his hope was that at least an even one of the caseshe could induce the jury to believe that he was insane. Under those circumstances, he would be sentenced not to a prison, but to a mental health facility.People would say to me, "Mike, this guy killed 16 people. "He was drinking their blood, eating parts of their body."He musta been crazy!" It sounds like he's crazy to say that, but that's not what the insanity rule is.- [Narrator] The city wanted justice. They wanted to see the man the press were calling the Milwaukee Canniballocked away in prison for the horrific crimes he had committed. The trial of Jeffrey Dahmer would be one of the biggestin the history of not just Wisconsin but the entire USA.- My reaction to it then was the same reaction, I think, that everybody who lived in Milwaukee hadwhen they heard about the case, "No, it can't be. "This is Milwaukee. "Those kinds of things don't happen here."This is the Midwest. "This is a very nice place."- [Narrator] The trial of Jeffrey Dahmer began on the 30th of January, 1992.Anne had a front-row seat. - The courtroom was an odd spectaclebecause Court TV was still new in the game back then.And the idea that you would come to courtand you'd be on television was still kind of new to people. It was the kind of media attention to a trialthat Milwaukee hadn't seen in a very, very long time, if ever.I can remember so clearly the first time, Jeffrey Dahmer's initial appearance in court,when he walked in. I think the real fear that people had when they first saw Jeffrey Dahmerwas that he looked like everybody else. He was a good-looking young man,and he is not the person that you would look at and say, "Stay away from that guy."- [Narrator] It would be up to Milwaukee DA Mike McCann to attempt to prove that Dahmer was saneand responsible for his actions. - Guilty wasn't going to be an issue, but we wanted the jury to know enough about the factsand so did the defense to say, "All right, what really happened here? "How atrocious was it? "How planned was it? "How was he behaving?"What skills were involved? "He couldn't control himself." - It was a lot to take inbecause the testimony was so graphic. We all knew Mike McCann.He was a religious man. And we've seen him in court, he's a good attorney.But the kinds of things that he was reciting out of the criminal complaint and the confession were unheard of.These things were unheard of, and they happened right here in our city.- He did it quietly. He concealed all the bodies, cleverly concealed, destroyed the bodies, planned it well,laid in the equipment, got the drugs that he used. No one that he worked with thought he was insane. The way he conducted himself,it was in a way that it seemed that he was sane, and that's what we wanted to get across to the jury.- [Narrator] Mike employed the help of psychiatry expert Dr. Phillip Resnick.- The more bizarre the crimes, such as involving cannibalism, the more the lay public wants to think,"That guy had to be out of his mind." But in looking at it from the actual strict definition of insanity,generally, the diseases of paraphilias like necrophilia,where someone has trouble controlling themselves, are not viewed for the most part as diseaseswhich qualify for insanity because of the social implications.One of the points that I made as a consultant is even if you have necrophiliaand even if you have trouble controlling your impulse, the majority of necrophiliacs will select a settingwhere they can accomplish this without homicide. So, some become assistants in morguesor assistants in pathology labs, where they may have to dead victims.Others will actually disinter bodies after they're buried so that one does not have to actually killto exercise the necrophilous impulse, and that's one of the reasons I feltthat he didn't qualify for insanity. - [Narrator] The trial was essentially a debate between specialist psychiatristsabout the mental state of Dahmer, who sat watching the whole thing play out over two weeks.- Dahmer was very calm in court. When you're assessing a person by what you see, no one studying him would believe he was insane.He was watching what was going on. He wasn't reacting in any negative way. He conducted himself in a very rational way,a very proper way. - This was a case to tell the world that I did what I didnot for reasons of hate. I hated no one. I knew I was sick or evil or both.Now, I believe I was sick. - [Narrator] On February 15th, The jury had reached a verdict on Dahmer's sanity.- When someone like Dahmer comes along who has never been in a psychiatric hospitaland alleges insanity, juries are gonna be skeptical of it.And then, when it's all in the form of his sexual drive rather than a traditional psychosiswhere someone's out of touch with reality, and he's taking careful steps to cover his tracks,it's very difficult to succeed with insanity with that type of case. - [Narrator] Jeffrey Dahmer was ruled to be saneby the jury. On February 17th, 1992, Judge Laurence Gram sentenced him to life imprisonmentfor each of the 15 counts against him. - When the verdict was announced in court,there was a great shout from the gallery, especially from the victims' families; they cried.- I was pleased in the sense, happy, not exuberant, but happy that this danger was removed from our community,that the jury had not been hoodwinked, that the jury realized this chap was not insane. - [Narrator] The state of Wisconsindoes not have the death penalty, but Dahmer would have to serve a minimum of 936 years.He was immediately sent to the Columbia Correctional Institute in Portage.Three months later, on the 1st of May, 1992, in Ohio, Dahmer was also found guiltyof murdering Steven Hicks in 1978 and given yet another life sentence.- Dahmer always said that he was compelled to kill, that they were urges.He said, "I had urges that I could not control." He also said that even though he was in prison,he was relieved that the killing was done. He still had the urges.They didn't go away. He was just in a place where he couldn't act on them.- [Narrator] Locked away for the rest of his life, Dahmer found comfort in the Bible. And by 1994, he decided to get baptized.The prison called on local minister Roy Ratcliff. - So, I was quite surprised to be escorted to a little roomand left alone. And then Jeff comes to the room and he closes the doorand then there's he and I sitting together across the table. And I'm thinking for a moment,"Wow, I'm in a room with a man who's killed several people." So, yeah, that was a little bit disconcerting,but I was there for a purpose and for a reason, so I wanted to find out what was going on and to see what I could do to help.So, my fears were set aside, primarily because of my focus on what I was trying to do.Jeff was a normal guy, courteous, very respectful to me. When we shook hands, I noticed his hands were rather small,looking at his hands and thinking, "Wow, these are the hands that strangled people. "These are the hands that murdered people."These are the hands that dismembered people." - [Narrator] On May the 10th, 1994,the same day that notorious serial killer John Wayne Gacy was executed,Jeffrey Dahmer was baptized in a prison bathtub. - Then the door opens and I walked into the roomand Jeff had already crawled into the tub and the only thing that was above the water was just simply his head.And so, "I baptize you in the name of the Father, "Son, and the Holy Spirit for the forgiveness of your sins," and push his head down under.And then when he came back up, I said something I often say to people when I baptize 'em, I said, "Welcome to the family of God."He said, "Well, thank you very much." - [Narrator] But just six months after his baptism on November the 28th, 1994,Dahmer and another convicted murderer, Jesse Anderson, were attacked and killed by a fellow inmate.- Christopher Scarver took a barbell, went into the bathroom,and beat both Jeffrey Dahmer and Jesse Anderson to death. There were a number of peoplewho felt that Jeffrey Dahmer got exactly what he deserved. When I called his mother, she said, "Well, now everybody got what they want."The monster is dead." And then she said, "He was my son, he was my boy."- It was a terrible, terrible death in that sense there. But for some people, it was a relief. They were glad because all they could think aboutare the crimes he committed. They're not thinking about what I'm thinking about is here's a person who's trying to serve God as best he canand now his life is being taken from us. - I mean, some people see some sort of poetic symmetryin the fact that Dahmer's first murder was the one in which he bludgeoned the teenage hitchhiker,Steven Hicks, to death with a barbell and that he himself died in a very, very similar way.- [Narrator] The apartment on North 25th Street that housed Dahmer's macabre collection of victims' remainsand where 12 young men lost their lives was demolished in November 1992,but Dahmer's twisted legacy has been impossible to wipe out. He has become one of the most infamous serial killersin the world. - I think of Dahmer as sorta like the flip side of somebody like Mozart.How do you account for somebody creating that kind of music? Ultimately, how do you account for somebodywho is luring young men to his apartment and drilling holes in their skull and injecting brains with muriatic acidto turn them into zombies? There's something there ultimately inexplicably. - Jeffrey Dahmer committed some of the most evil actsthat I have ever written about or heard about or seen on a television show, because they were real.I don't know if he was sane or insane because that's not my training to figure that out,but I can absolutely say that he didsome of the most evil acts known to man. - [Narrator] Dahmer's crimes would not feel out of placein a perverse horror movie. He was a man who killed to satisfy his unhealthy sexual perversions,keeping parts of his victims' skeletons as trophies and eating their organs.Jeffrey Dahmer truly is the stuff of nightmares and unquestionably one of the world's most evil killers.