What do you think Of Jeffery Dahmer?Should he have been sent to a mental hospital instead of prison?Should we give "the gift of mercy" to lifers who ask for it, like Jeffery?What do you think of his death?Archived post. New comments cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast.Upvote24Downvote418Go to commentsShareShareSort by:BestSearch CommentsExpand comment searchComments Sectionu/AutoModerator avatarAutoModeratorMOD•2y ago•Stickied comment•The following is a copy of the original post to record the post as it was originally written.Should he have been sent to a mental hospital instead of prison?Should we give "the gift of mercy" to lifers who ask for it, like Jeffery?What do you think of his death?I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.UpvoteVoteDownvoteShareSharespidersinterweb•2y ago•Center LeftIn my opinion, his actions were kind of problematic honestly. I don't think he's a good role model for the youth of America todayUpvote210DownvoteShareShareNicklAAAAs•2y ago•Center LeftI agree. Massive issue with alcoholism and, among other things, an all-timer on the Bad Apartment Neighbors list.Upvote57DownvoteShareSharespidersinterweb•2y ago•Center LeftPlus animal abuse. Pretty messed up. Just because they aren't people doesn't make it ok to needlessly harm themI'd be very disappointed in my sons if I found out that they look up to problematic figures like DahmerUpvote22DownvoteShareShare[deleted]•2y ago•[deleted]•2y ago•In my opinion he is an example of someone who’s done an amazing job and is being recognized more and more.Upvote9DownvoteShareSharespidersinterweb•2y ago•Center LeftWell, you are certainly entitled to your own opinion. I guess we'll just have to agree to disagreeUpvote6DownvoteShareSharePM_ME_YOUR_DARKNESS•2y ago•ProgressiveI just don't see how he's not at least in the conversation of being the best at what he did.Upvote11DownvoteShareShare1 more reply[deleted]OP•2y ago•Lol fairUpvote3DownvoteShareShare4 more replies[deleted]•2y ago•I don't remember much about him. I remember at the time thinking that the whole thing seemed pathological.I remember there was some sort of racially questionable moment where an Asian (?) victim escapes, was found by cops and returned to Dohmer. That stuck with me.I'm not someone who believes that violence perpetrated on prisoners is acceptable. I find the "he got what he deserved" framework pretty disgusting.Upvote39DownvoteShareShareu/carlse20 avatarcarlse20•2y ago•LiberalNot just an Asian victim, but a 14 year old naked Asian victim with a hole in the side of his head. And the cops gave him back to dahmerUpvote33DownvoteShareShare2 more replies2 more repliestysontysontyson1•2y ago•Center LeftDahmer was a really disturbed and depressed person his whole life, but he absolutely knew what he was doing was wrong. I think he belonged in jail. As much sympathy as I could have for anyone who’s that messed up in the head, I have more for the people he killed (and worse).I’m not surprised at all that he was killed in jail, after what he did and who he did it to.Upvote38DownvoteShareSharecollapsingrebel•2y ago•Center LeftI think we overuse the death penalty as a general rule but I think if anyone deserved it it would have been Jeffrey Dahmer. Doesn't surprise me he got beaten to death. I'm not going to lose any sleep or feel any sympathy for a cannibalistic serial killer.Upvote28DownvoteShareShare[deleted]OP•2y ago•Hot_Dog_Cobbler•2y ago•Center LeftThe level of planning and commitment Dahmer had shows that he was mentally competent. He admitted he knew what he did was wrong. Just because you feel compulsion doesn't mean you should act on it.I don't believe in the death penalty, though. Not out of sympathy, but because the appeals process and lengthy stay on death row eats up a lot of money and time, whereas life without parole is...well, life without parole.Upvote38DownvoteShareSharecrazy-bisquit•2y ago•Edited 2y ago•CentristHis death sentence was carried out in prison. It was allowed to happen; he was intentionally sent in to a room to mop a floor, and others were allowed to go in and beat him to death. While I don’t believe in the death penalty either- I cannot help but agree with this particular inmate justice. NOT general vengeance.Edit: clarity.Edit: I know someone who worked in that prison. He did not have anything to do with what happened, he wouldn’t have. He told me about it sometime in the 90’s- way before Netflix.Upvote8DownvoteShareShareHot_Dog_Cobbler•2y ago•Center LeftThat isn't justice. That's a prison guard deciding he has the right to decide who should live or die.I understand what you are saying, but we also know people have been wrongfully accused and convicted. Granted, Dahmer did what he did...but there are plenty of people who have been wrongfully imprisoned. If we, as a society, allow guards to dispense (their version of) justice, then we are not doing the right thing.Upvote26DownvoteShareShare8 more repliesu/almightywhacko avataralmightywhacko•2y ago•Social LiberalI don't know how much truth there is to this story.Dahmer was assigned to a three man work detail, along with Jesse Anderson and Christopher Scarver. Scarver killed both Dahmer and Anderson before returning to his cell and confessing to a guard, claiming that God told him to commit the murders.There has never been any evidence that the murders were an intentional act or that Dahmer and Anderson were set up by the guards to die and Christopher Scarver is still alive in prison and serving three life sentences for his killings.Upvote6DownvoteShareShare3 more repliesu/imveganbro avatarimveganbro•2y ago•DemocratIs there any proof that this was allowed to happen?Upvote2DownvoteShareShareu/tie-dyed_dolphin avatartie-dyed_dolphin•2y ago•Left LibertarianProbably the same amount of proof that Epstein didn’t kill himself.Upvote7DownvoteShareShare2 more repliesu/ImInOverMyHead95 avatarImInOverMyHead95•2y ago•DemocratPrior to that day he had a guard escort him everywhere he went within the prison for his own safety. That day they just happened to leave him alone.Upvote1DownvoteShareShare4 more repliestwistedh8•2y ago•IndependentHe was a serial killer and karma happened. God rest his victims souls.Upvote7DownvoteShareShare1 more reply[deleted]•2y ago•I can tell from OP's comments that they were sheltered and have no concept of suffering.Upvote21DownvoteShareShareu/tie-dyed_dolphin avatartie-dyed_dolphin•2y ago•Left LibertarianMy guess is they just watched the Netflix show. Dahmer is played by the very handsome and charming Evan Peters, so this probably has given OP a very sympathetic and totally skewed perspective of who Dahmer actually was.Upvote20DownvoteShareSharelyssthebitchcalore•2y ago•Bernie IndependentI definitely don't think the show showed enough of how sick he was or the mental disturbances he had. But it's still pretty damning. I've always been one to enjoy a murder show, I read about serial killers. Few make me sick like Dahmer does. He was charming because that's how most serial killers work. They know how to put the charm on to lure their victims.He wasn't stupid. Mental health conditions unless severely disabling does not mean he didn't know what he was doing. He was smart, he planned these murders, he escalated them. He knew he had these urges and knew this wasn't normal because of the care he took to hide it from those around him such as his family. He got kicked out of the military for certain actions. He knew what he was doing was wrong and he knew he would and had faced consequences in the past for his impulses. Being an alcoholic doesn't make you a murderer either.Was he remorseful or saved? I don't know that's between him and God. But even if he had been treated, saved by Jesus, and rehabilitated he still deserved to stay in prison to pay for the crimes he committed. Being a born again Christian means your sins are cleansed, but not that you still don't have to face the consequences of those crimes or that you will stop sinning.I don't think him being murdered in prison was a good thing. He should have been forced to serve his sentence fully until his natural death.Tracy Edwards testimony tells a lot more of what his victims first encountered. It was fucked up, Dahmer having hours of playing with his victims before even murdering them. He knew exactly what he was doinghttps://youtu.be/HP5SQDdcgDkUpvote8DownvoteShareShare[deleted]•2y ago•Exactly. They would be writing to him in prison.Upvote3DownvoteShareShareu/tie-dyed_dolphin avatartie-dyed_dolphin•2y ago•Left Libertarian“I can fix him”Upvote13DownvoteShareShare[deleted]OP•2y ago•Oh bite meUpvote-1DownvoteShareShareu/tie-dyed_dolphin avatartie-dyed_dolphin•2y ago•Left LibertarianI won’t, but Dahmer certainly would.Upvote11DownvoteShareShare[deleted]•2y ago•??Upvote5DownvoteShareShare10 more replies1 more reply[deleted]OP•2y ago•Excuse me?Upvote-1DownvoteShareShare[deleted]•2y ago•Read what you wrote in response to a guy who was a literal monster.Upvote3DownvoteShareShare[deleted]OP•2y ago•That it's complex and he's also a victim?He's not a literal monster, he's no minotaur or dragon he's a human probably a broken oneUpvote-1DownvoteShareShareu/carlse20 avatarcarlse20•2y ago•LiberalI don’t hold sympathy for people who, premeditated, rape and murder others and try to turn people into zombie sex slaves. I don’t give a fuck what abuse they suffered, I don’t give a fuck how hard their childhoods were. Lots of people are abused and have terrible home lives and don’t turn into sociopathic mass murderers. Some actions society should not forgive and to make the argument that he deserves more preferential treatment than other murderers because he was “broken” in some way is just to spit in the faces of his victims.Upvote10DownvoteShareShare19 more replies[deleted]•2y ago•Him not being half beast makes him worse.Listen, a lot of people grow up in worse conditions than Dahmer. Drugging, raping, and eating people is 100% a choice.He benefitted from the system more than he suffered. That is why he was able to murder people so carelessly.Upvote6DownvoteShareShareu/almightywhacko avataralmightywhacko•2y ago•Social LiberalHe was a murderer, and regardless of the reason for why he murdered in my mind once you reach that point you're beyond the aid of mental health treatment as your restitution for crimes committed. He deserved to be in prison.An argument could be made for accidental manslaughter, but the stuff Dahmer did wasn't accidental. He raped and murdered at least 18 people in a manner that was very obviously premeditated.Upvote23DownvoteShareShare[deleted]•2y ago•I personally think death penalty would be justified. He knew damn well what he was doing was wrongUpvote5DownvoteShareShareMoonpenny•2y ago•ProgressiveWhy the death penalty when the alternative -- life in prison -- is essentially the same outcome after years of being a prisoner and overall cheaper?Upvote1DownvoteShareShare[deleted]OP•2y ago•I don't think that's trueUpvote-4DownvoteShareShareu/almightywhacko avataralmightywhacko•2y ago•Social LiberalWhat part?Upvote8DownvoteShareShare[deleted]OP•2y ago•2 more replies28 more repliescosmicnitwit•2y ago•ProgressiveI’m against anyone being tortured or murdered in prison. I grew up learning that’s what happened in the “bad” countries. He should have continued his sentence. But, I was perfectly fine when it happened as I am today, he was a monsterUpvote6DownvoteShareShareu/endyCJ avatarendyCJ•2y ago•LiberalI'm opposed to the death penalty on principle but I don't think there's any way to rehabilitate someone like that. Just lock him up and throw away the key.Upvote3DownvoteShareShareslim_scsi•2y ago•Pragmatic ProgressiveHe should have been blow torched after the first murder.Upvote3DownvoteShareShare[deleted]OP•2y ago•He should have been caughtUpvote1DownvoteShareShare1 more reply[deleted]•2y ago•u/Kitchen_Agency4375 avatarKitchen_Agency4375•2y ago•Center LeftHe was serial killer crazy. We don’t need, want, or have sympathy for that type of crazyUpvote5DownvoteShareShare18 more repliesu/Barbados_slim12 avatarBarbados_slim12•2y ago•Right LibertarianI don't support government legalized murder the death penalty, but for people like him I wouldn't be opposed to 24/7 solitary confinementUpvote9DownvoteShareShare2localboi•2y ago•Socialist24/7 solitary confinement is a bit much for me.Upvote17DownvoteShareShareu/Barbados_slim12 avatarBarbados_slim12•2y ago•Right LibertarianOh of course. We're social animals by nature so 100% solitary confinement would be torture. I'm just saying that if someone killed and ate at least 17 people, I'd be willing to look the other way if that's the route they went. It wouldn't be worth my time to oppose itUpvote0DownvoteShareShare2localboi•2y ago•Edited 2y ago•SocialistYeah, I’m not willing to do that.I’m not a fan of dehumanising tortuous punishments for the worst crimes because we should be better than that and we could have convicted an innocent person.If someone r@ped my partner and ate them alive or some shit, I’d want to exact my own retribution but that’s not the states job to exact on my behalf.It would be worth my time to oppose because justifying treating prisoners/people badly because of perceived crimes they have committed is a very dangerous precedent to set.Upvote18DownvoteShareShare[deleted]•2y ago•That's a slipery slope. Do this for the worst of humanity and the next day you have the likes of Abbots passing legislature for the same thing to happen to women who get abortions and republicans cheering for that.Upvote8DownvoteShareShare4 more replies[deleted]OP•2y ago•That also seems unconstitutionalUpvote2DownvoteShareShareu/Indrigotheir avatarIndrigotheir•2y ago•LiberalWhat is gained for the wellbeing of others by a prisoner's 24/7 solitary confinement instead of death?Upvote3DownvoteShareShare2localboi•2y ago•SocialistInnocent people in prison won’t be dead.Upvote3DownvoteShareShareu/Indrigotheir avatarIndrigotheir•2y ago•LiberalThis is the only reasonable position, in my opinion; the inadequacy and inaccuracy of our justice system.With the caveat that in a perfect world, where offenders could reliably be identified, execution is preferable to permanent torture.Upvote2DownvoteShareShare4 more replieslucash7•2y ago•Far LeftWhat is gained by the government sanctioned killing of someone? If killing is wrong, then we kill someone to show that killing someone is wrong…how would that deter? Because it obviously doesn’t.People say it is justice, but I argue it is revenge disguised as justice.Justice is basically the administration of laws, agreed to by the public, but there’s also a moral and ethical component to it, as well as laws.Can you morally and ethically justify the killing of someone, the taking of a life, or someone who killed which in Dahmers case is probably due to biological predisposition outside of his control?I’m not arguing for Dahmer, as he is an extreme example, but instead trying to make a point that I don’t see how killing someone who killed someone serves any moral or ethical purpose toward the goal of stopping murder. It doesn’t work. We also don’t take into the fact that if it is in fact a case of biological/chemical predisposition, outside of these peoples control, then how is it moral or ethical to effectively kill someone with a mental illness?That’s also not even getting into the fact that we do this in a justice system which is incredibly flawed and we have seen innocent people out in death row, executed.So….there’s a lot to discuss and I think we have a ways to go.Upvote2DownvoteShareShareu/Indrigotheir avatarIndrigotheir•2y ago•LiberalKilling someone isn't wrong; "Murder" is the word for killing that is wrong. For example, if someone attempts to kill you, killing them defensively is not considered murder.The purpose of both executing or permanently isolating and torturing someone is twofold.To prevent that person who has shown a propensity to violate the rights of others from doing so,To exhibit the consequences of violating the rights of others to other potential offenders.Both of these functions are served by execution and permanent isolation and torture; the difference is how prolonged suffering is beforehand.Both of the goals of a justice system can also be met by rehabilitation, without the need for pointless torture of an inmate.I would assert that rehabilitative justice is the ideal form of proportional response to a crime.If someone is unwilling to commit to rehabilitative justice due to a petty need for vengeance, then they should commit to the consequences of their choice and accept execution as the ideal remaining option. Prolonged torture and suffering solves and adds nothing.Upvote2DownvoteShareShare4 more replies21 more repliesdryadbride•2y ago•Centrist DemocratI don't have a good opinion of him...Dahmer would be welcome to receive mental health services from my tax dollars, but there is no need to release him into society.Upvote2DownvoteShareShare[deleted]OP•2y ago•I agreeUpvote2DownvoteShareShareLate-Bar-8498•2y ago•LiberalHe was an evil person and we should focus more on the people he hurt and not himUpvote2DownvoteShareShareu/Kerplonk avatarKerplonk•2y ago•Social DemocratWhat do you think Of Jeffery Dahmer?Serial killers are kind of interesting I guess. Outside of that I don't think much about him one way or the otherShould he have been sent to a mental hospital instead of prison?I don't know maybe. Regardless I think he should have remained incarcerated for the rest of his life. I think the possibility of him re-offending is to great to take the chance.Should we give "the gift of mercy" to lifers who ask for it, like Jeffery?What is the gift of mercy exactly? I googled it and nothing obvious came up.What do you think of his death?I think prisoners suffering anything during their incarceration other than the loss of freedom necessary to keep them from being a danger to society or discourage people from committing crimes is a tragedy no matter how terrible they happen to be.Upvote3DownvoteShareShare[deleted]OP•2y ago•Killing someone who asks for it, it's a game of thrones referenceUpvote1DownvoteShareShareu/Kerplonk avatarKerplonk•2y ago•Social DemocratAhh, thanks for the clarification.No I don't think that the government should be in the business of state sanctioned murder of healthy individuals. If Dahmer wanted to kill himself bad enough he could eventually figure out a way to do so.Upvote5DownvoteShareShareronin1066•2y ago•LiberalWe're not in a place yet where we can help someone like him. Therefore, i don't have a problem with taking him out of circulationUpvote4DownvoteShareShare2localboi•2y ago•SocialistWhat does this process look like? How would a world where problematic people “disappear” be one that is fair and just?Upvote3DownvoteShareShareronin1066•2y ago•LiberalWhen we understand the human brain better and can fix psychopathy like we can fix other diseases. We rehabilitate people with minor afflictions today, we may be able to rehab people with more major afflictions in the future. I'm not sure why that automatically edges close to something unfair to you.Upvote0DownvoteShareShare2localboi•2y ago•SocialistTaking someone “out of circulation” isn’t the same as treating them. If you meant treating them be explicit about it because this thread is full of people insinuating they are OK with killing murderers and using euphemisms to hide what they are really saying.Upvote2DownvoteShareShare1 more replyepicgrilledchees•2y ago•Center LeftWe should send the guy that killed him a box of cookies.Upvote3DownvoteShareShare[deleted]•2y ago•Their choice?Have to imagine that any lifer without parole was in line to become famous for killing this guy.Upvote2DownvoteShareShare[deleted]OP•2y ago•NoHe should and was tried for murderUpvote2DownvoteShareShareepicgrilledchees•2y ago•Center LeftHe can still get cookies.Upvote3DownvoteShareShare[deleted]•2y ago•And a fucking medalUpvote3DownvoteShareShare[deleted]•2y ago•Who cares. The planet is dying and horrible people are in control and we’re talking about a dead serial killer.Upvote2DownvoteShareShareBlueCollarBeagle•2y ago•ProgressiveI think if he ran for a senate seat in Wisconsin, Mississippi, Utah, or Oklahoma, he'd win the election.Upvote2DownvoteShareShare1 more replyareyouseriousdotard•2y ago•MarxistDahmer did some really horrible stuff to ppl. His victims families should get to decide.Upvote2DownvoteShareShare[deleted]OP•2y ago•Hard noUpvote-1DownvoteShareShareareyouseriousdotard•2y ago•MarxistHe couldn't be rehabilitated. It was pointless to keep him around, except for possible study.Upvote1DownvoteShareShare[deleted]OP•2y ago•Why?Upvote1DownvoteShareShare8 more repliesu/ExplorersxMuse avatarExplorersxMuse•2y ago•IndependentHe strayed far outside the parameters of conceivable humanity, so I feel no conflict of morality holding no space for him whatsoever. He was proof incarnate that God does indeed make mistakes, and he deserved everything ill he inflicted on this world. Any abrupt end to his suffering was a miscarriage of justice. Peace to the affected families who have to keep reliving this pain due to America's morbid curiosity fueled media comsumptionUpvote2DownvoteShareSharePMMCTMD•2y ago•LiberalThere are lots of criminals that should be in mental institutions and not prison. I read somewhere that at least 40 percent of the prison population has some kind of mental illness. What Dalmer did was not normal behavior. The sooner we stop putting the mentally ill into prisons, the better we will be as a society.Upvote2DownvoteShareShareu/almightywhacko avataralmightywhacko•2y ago•Social LiberalWhat Dalmer did was not normal behavior.You mean raping and murdering 18+ young men and children? Eating some of them and preserving and displaying their body parts as souvenirs?That isn't normal?If this type of behavior isn't deserving of prison time, in your opinion what kind of behavior is?Upvote5DownvoteShareSharePMMCTMD•2y ago•Liberalby not normal, i meant he was clearly mentally ill and should have been treated as such.Upvote0DownvoteShareShareu/almightywhacko avataralmightywhacko•2y ago•Social LiberalAt what point does someone deserve prison time?Almost everyone has some degree of medically recognized mental disorder, at which level does that negate the fact that someone should be held accountable for their crime?Upvote2DownvoteShareShare3 more replies1 more replyLoopyMercutio•2y ago•Center LeftHonestly, I think when we catch a serial killer in the act they should be sentenced to an expedited death. Give them one appeal, only one, and then just wipe them from memory.Upvote2DownvoteShareShare[deleted]•2y ago•I support the death penalty. I think there should be serious standards as far as evidence and proof beyond a reasonable doubt to enforce it. But anyone that is murdering or raping or eating people doesn’t deserve another chance or to live out their life on our dime.Unfortunately, there are always exceptions where an innocent person may face the penalty. But I feel this is very rare, and if I was in that position it’s hard to say if I’d rather just be killed or forced to live in a prison the rest of my life labeled as something I’m not.I’m not saying every single murder should be handled with the death penalty. But in cases like dahmer and serial offenders that are pretty easy to prove I feel like the death penalty is a must.Upvote1DownvoteShareSharegrammanarchy•2y ago•Edited 2y ago•Liberal Civil Libertarianthere are always exceptions where an innocent person may face the penalty. But I feel this is very rare.Since 1973, 190 people on death row have been exonerated. These aren’t people who got off on a technicality or got a stay of execution — they were actually innocent.Upvote9DownvoteShareShare1 more reply[deleted]•2y ago•White criminals get far more sympathy and intrigue than exceptional people of color from white audiences. I see no reason to care about Dahmer.Upvote0DownvoteShareShareRandomGrasspass•2y ago•Center RightIs this a real Comment? No, prison was right for him. Mercy for him was never an option and I feel nothing about his death. Less strain on the taxpayers I guess so that’s a positive angle .Upvote0DownvoteShareShare2 more repliesButuguru•2y ago•Libertarian SocialistI’m opposed to the death penalty. The “gift of mercy” you mention is a tough one because it’s a crossroads of two beliefs of mine: 1. That’s effectively the death penalty 2. I’m generally in favor of physician assisted suicide. Without a ton of thought I lean toward being against it. As for mental hospital, I think certainly some sort of mental care maximum security center would’ve been better.Upvote1DownvoteShareShareu/ill-independent avatarill-independent•2y ago•Pragmatic ProgressiveShould he have been sent to a mental hospital instead of prison?No, he was a dangerous individual and unable to exist in society without putting others at risk. A mental hospital is not equipped with the resources needed to house an offender like Dahmer. The issue here is that prison is what needs reform.Should we give "the gift of mercy" to lifers who ask for it, like Jeffrey?What is "the gift of mercy"? Guessing it means euthanasia, if so, sure. People should have the right to die on their own terms.What do you think of his death?I think it was an interpersonal dispute and does not have a political implication. If the question is, do I think he deserved to die? At the time he was serving his sentence, no. He appeared to be coexisting with others, but I don't know the full details of his imprisonment.Upvote1DownvoteShareShareu/Stormlight1984 avatarStormlight1984•2y ago•LiberalI think that serial killers are in the same category as fascism, eugenics, and rabid dogs: stuff that you put down immediately. Understanding the causes and changing laws/rules/policies to address those causes is existentially secondary.When the thing you have to put down is an individual, not a political idea or group, yeah, odds are that individual’s fuckedupness is somewhat our fault, in the social sense that clearly something somewhere failed this person.Upvote1DownvoteShareShare[deleted]•2y ago•I would add “people who spoof numbers and call me about my auto warranty” to your listUpvote3DownvoteShareShareillegalize-it•2y ago•Left LibertarianI don’t support the death penalty as a principle, but he made his choices and had to deal with the consequences. Certainly not going to shed any tears over him.Upvote1DownvoteShareSharegirlfriend_pregnant•2y ago•Market SocialistHe made some mistakesUpvote1DownvoteShareShare[deleted]•2y ago•He was endorsing the Keto diet.Upvote1DownvoteShareShareu/Scalage89 avatarScalage89•2y ago•Democratic SocialistMy view of incarceration is that it focusses too much on retaliation rather than prevention of repeat offences. That said, I'm not sure in Jeffrey's case there would be a noticeable difference with a different kind of sentence.Upvote1DownvoteShareSharetfox1986•2y ago•LiberalFairly certain he didn’t ask for mercy and would have preferred to have been executed.Upvote1DownvoteShareShare[deleted]OP•2y ago•Thats what the gift of mercy isUpvote1DownvoteShareShare14 more repliesu/Heyoteyo avatarHeyoteyo•2y ago•Conservative DemocratI’m all for rehabilitation, but that’s not really something that I think is rehabilitatable… as for executing people who ask for it, no. Too expensive to go through all the legal processes for any execution, even for a willing participant. Not worth the time and money.Upvote1DownvoteShareShareLordBaNZa•2y ago•ProgressiveI think that there is a fundamental flaw in viewing justice as equal to retribution. Any time the justification for a sentence is "they get what they deserve" I think that's immoral and not something I support. I believe that there is nobody so far gone that they don't deserve to be seen and treated as a human.With that said, with someone as extreme as Dahmer who is so obviously dangerous, there is a justification for having him segregated from the rest of society in perpetuity. I think that all prisoners should have access to healthcare, both physical and mental, so if he was evaluated thoroughly and it was determined that being kept in a permanent in-care facility with the protocols to make sure that he couldn't get loose was what was best, I wouldn't have a problem with that.I also don't believe that there's any justification for keeping anyone alive against there will and believe in assisted suicide, so if there is someone asking to die then yes, we should let them.What do you think of his death?While I'm not in favor of the death penalty, I also don't fault someone who is so viscerally repulsed by someone that could do the things that Dahmer did and then gloat about it for wanting that guy dead.Upvote1DownvoteShareShareu/TarnishedVictory avatarTarnishedVictory•2y ago•ProgressiveI don't know anything about him other than he was a mass murderer and maybe a cannibal or something.Should he have been sent to a mental hospital instead of prison?Perhaps a mental hospital and a prison. But if we don't want to waste money, then just a prison.Should we give "the gift of mercy" to lifers who ask for it, like Jeffery?I'm not sure what you mean by gift of mercy, but I don't think people like that should be free.What do you think of his death?I don't think of his death, not even familiar with it. I might have heard about it when it happened if it made the news, but I have no reason that I'm aware of too think of his death. Do you have something specific in mind about it?Upvote1DownvoteShareShare[deleted]OP•2y ago•Gift of mercy is assisted suicideUpvote1DownvoteShareSharemusicalpants999•2y ago•LiberalComplicated. I think he was clearly mentally ill. And I'm not sure it's right for someone like him to be in gen pop. It's not surprising what happened to him in prison. In general I would like to see prison as a more humane place.On the otherhand the amount of pain he caused makes it hard to have too much empathy for him. He was a monstrous person. The families of the people he killed are still suffering today.Upvote1DownvoteShareShareCegeRoles•2y ago•LiberalIt’s a shame that he could only die once.Upvote1DownvoteShareShareu/onikaizoku11 avataronikaizoku11•2y ago•Bernie IndependentMake your own judgments of me, but I have seen too many documentaries of this man over the years because I am an avid fan of true crime shows. I believe after being tried and convicted, that Dahmer should had been treated humanely but remanded to the scientific field of forensic science.The man should have had his DNA sampled and fully mapped individually. Also at the moment of his natural, unassisted death, his body-specifically his brain-should have been taken and preserved to be studied meticulously to use its unique structure to help predict possible occurrences of other individuals with his proclivities before they act on them.Dahmer preyed on and committed barbarous atrocities on the most vulnerable and shunned members of society and it is right and proper that someone like him be segregated from humanity at large. While the damage and to put it frankly evil he left in his wake can never really be undone, him being a case study as a human monster could have been better harnessed for the betterment of the species.Upvote1DownvoteShareShareu/OpenMindTulsaBill avatarOpenMindTulsaBill•2y ago•IndependentA little AskALiberal perverted humor goes far enough. At least 17 people were raped, murdered, chopped up and eaten. 17 families devastated. One of the country's great tragedies. And good old liberal humor here. And, this is where the great political philosophies of our time are discussed in the same manner.Time for some heavy introspection needed here.Upvote1DownvoteShareSharebobbyjames1986•2y ago•DemocratI don't care what anyone says. Jeffery Dahmer was a real JERK.Upvote1DownvoteShareShare[deleted]•2y ago•The thing is he wasn’t insane, he had a very fucked up fetish and he acted it out.Upvote1DownvoteShareShare[deleted]OP•2y ago•Philia are mental illnessesUpvote0DownvoteShareShare1 more replyTheTarkovskyParadigm•2y ago•Pragmatic ProgressiveJeffrey Domer (aka Steve Barker) is way better.Upvote1DownvoteShareSharetrilobright•2y ago•SocialistI don't believe the state should have the absolute power of life and death over an individual. The worst violent criminals should be incarcerated for life without any chance of parole. Your distinction between a prison and a mental hospital is somewhat misleading. A state facility for the criminally insane isn't a spa retreat where you talk about your feelings and make a macaroni art, it's a prison specially designed to securely hold inmates like Dahmer, who pose a greater risk to guards, other inmates, and/or themselves than "normal" violent convicts.Upvote1DownvoteShareShare[deleted]•2y ago•He was crazy, but he knew what he was doing. I'm fine with people like that spending the rest of their lives behind bars. If an offender wants to pursue their own brand of justice, I'm not going to help them. I won't necessarily cry about it either.I'd rather talk about the cops who let Dahmer take one of his victims home. They facilitated that murder through their ignorance and bigotry and they got away with it.Upvote1DownvoteShareShareu/SwagLord5002 avatarSwagLord5002•2y ago•Left LibertarianFor me, the topic of serial killers has always been a bit of a weird area.On the one hand, I used to be an ardent supporter of the death penalty on the basis that some people just can't be rehabilitated and will inevitably reoffend, so it makes little logical sense to spend resources housing and feeding someone who can never released back into civilized society.On the other hand, I've come to believe that the prison system itself is so innately flawed compared to other countries, that we would never be in the predicament of even considering having to use the death penalty if we reoriented our prisons more towards rehabilitating criminals rather than punishing them, which is not to say that I think that the crimes that many criminals commit are acceptable by any metric, but more that the system inevitably fucks over people who could otherwise reasonably be released back into civilized society (namely those with drug abuse charges) and ultimately puts them in a position where the state is forced to divide between whether or not they should be given a life sentence or a death sentence when realistically, if they had focused on trying to rehabilitate the person instead of punishing them, they may have never reoffended or committed crimes more grievous than their original conviction.In my eyes, the death penalty is a "feel-good" law in that it allows the families of the victims to see the old principle of "eye-for-an-eye" in action, but realistically, even if some of those death row inmates cannot reasonably be released back into civilization, I believe giving the government the power to be the executioner in addition to the judge and jury simply leads to too many possible negative outcomes. This could be as simple as the wrong man being tried and sentenced to death or, worse yet, evidence proving said man's innocence could be outright ignored (in fact, the 1930's case of Joe Arridy, a mentally disabled man who was clinically proven to be too developmentally delayed to reasonably commit the rape and murder he was accused of and was still sentenced to death in spite of there being a far more likely culprit already in police custody at the time, may have singlehandedly convinced me that the death penalty is barbaric). Worse yet, with our current trend of increasingly authoritarian figures in American politics, if the security of our democracy and judicial process was completely compromised, that would allow whoever seized power to sentence their critics to death. Perhaps it sounds like I'm fearmongering a bit, but that's the point: we have to be more than a little paranoid about how much power we give the government in the event that said power is abused or compromised, and especially so when the lives of potentially innocent people are put on the line. I'd much sooner we let a criminal walk free than send an innocent man to the electric chair in his place.However, people like Jeffrey Dahmer offer an admittedly problematic dilemma: on the one hand, Dahmer, in spite of having a whole slew of untreated mental health conditions, was clearly still mentally competent enough to meticulously locate victims, kill them, and dispose of their remains without getting caught for a very long time. On the other, even if he was lucid enough to commit those crimes, he still had an extremely skewed (or, some may argue, virtually nonexistent) moral compass, something which meant that he would, in all likelihood, go back to reoffending if he ever saw freedom again. This puts us in a weird position where you can't release them back in civilization, but you also can't realistically rehabilitate them or so much as attempt to hammer in the fact that their actions are morally reprehensible (in fact, most forms of therapy have negligible impacts on people with NPD or ASPD, conditions which Dahmer wasn't diagnosed with but which his symptoms closely mimicked). That leads us to a crossroads where some people would say to just off them, whereas others would opt to go the route of wanting to understand where it all went wrong. Personally, I fall under the latter route for one simple reason: if you can identify trends in behavior and the event(s) that may have been the metaphorical "tipping point", it could just so help to prevent other serial killers in the making from committing similar crimes.For me, serial killers are of particular interest because I have OCD and (probable) BPD, and from what I can understand, most serial killers describe killing as stemming from an almost therapeutic (although extremely sinister) form of emotional relief. They describe it as like a compulsive urge, something they need to do to get the thought off their mind for a while. Of course, if you know anything about OCD or BPD, impulsive/compulsive behavior is a trait of both and emotional dysregulation is a trait of BPD (though it's also quite common in OCD patients), and one of the first things they will teach you in therapy is how to avoid acting on urges or redirecting them to more healthy areas of focus. In my mind, the compulsive urge to kill (and subsequent act of killing) appears to a combination of extreme emotional dysregulation and obsessive-compulsive/impulsive behavior, which is not to say that you should fear everyone who has OCD or BPD as if they're innately out to get you (cuz believe me, we're probably beating ourselves up internally more than we're fantasizing about doing it to you), but more that those specific traits, when unmanaged, seem to be a very deadly combo. Therefore, I believe that if you can catch someone before they're about to commit their first serious crime, you can stop them from actually killing someone and having that turn into an addictive behavior, thereby stopping them from committing more murders. This is further complicated by the fact, however, that many serial killers would fall under a diagnosis of either NPD or ASPD (or, quite frequently, both), which are characterized by a lack of empathy and a skewed moral compass, in addition to engaging in abusive and/or criminal behavior. However, while people with those conditions make up a disproportionate percentage of prison inmates, it's very rare that you will see someone with those diagnoses committing crimes on the level of Ted Bundy or Jeffrey Dahmer, which, to me, suggests that there's some other component at play beyond just mental health conditions. While those conditions also make it far more difficult to actually effectively rehabilitate someone, there is some proof that the symptoms can be managed through psychotherapy in a way which reduces the likelihood of harming themself or others.Overall, my belief is that while we may not be able to fully rehabilitate the Jeffrey Dahmers of this world, we should, at the very least, try to understand where it all went wrong and where we could potentially intercept and stop someone who may be looking to do others harm in a similar fashion. I would still oppose the death penalty, however, on the grounds that while their actions are reprehensible, killing them does little to actually get to the root of the issue and ultimately serves to make us feel as though justice has been granted. Make no mistake, however, that my heart still goes out to the families of Dahmer's victims and that he absolutely deserved to have been locked away for life because he was inevitably too dangerous to be released back into society.On the topic of the "gift of mercy", my stance is less about granting him mercy and more so about, like I said previously, learning as much as possible from them so that would-be serial killers can be swiftly stopped in the future, as has been the case with our increasingly more advanced forensics field.Finally, to answer your last question, while I certainly don't like to peddle conspiracies, I 100% believe that his death was intentional neglect from the prison itself. Christopher Scarver was known for being violent and virulently hated white people to boot. Additionally, there was already tension between the two since, according to Scarver, Dahmer had supposedly bragged about the killings in prison and actively tormented other prisoners. The fact that they put the two of them together, completely unsupervised, save for one other prisoner whom Scarver could easily overpower, was definitely not a coincidence. Everyone there universally hated Dahmer and wanted him gone, and they decided to let Scarver do the dirty work for them. Cynical? Maybe. But you don't put two guys who hate each other's guts in the same room unsupervised and expect both to walk out alive.Upvote1DownvoteShareSharenot_a_flying_toy_•2y ago•Left LibertarianDahmer was a serial killer. Quite arguably most serial killers are mentally ill. Dahmer certainly was.But prison was likely the right choiceUpvote1DownvoteShareShareHomegrownscientist•2y ago•ProgressiveI think growing up gay in a very homophobic time was one of the main causes of his mental issues.Upvote1DownvoteShareShare24_Elsinore•2y ago•ProgressiveWhat do I think of him besides the fact that he was a monster?He walked into a chocolate factory and got a job making the equivalent around $20/hr even though he had already been convicted of exposing himself to people at a public park.Worse though is what happened to Konerak Sinthasomphone. He was a fourteen year old that Dahmer lured to his apartment, and then Dahmer drilled a hole in his skull and injected hydrochloric acid into his brain. Then Dahmer left to get beer, and Sinthasomphone wandered out of his apartment into the street and was found by some ladies who called the authorities. The fire department and paramedics wanted to take the boy to the hospital, but Dahmer found them and convinces the police who showed up that Sinthasomphone, a 14 year old boy, was his boyfriend. The cops let Dahmer take the boy back to his apartment, after threatening to arrest the ladies and the fire department and paramedics after the latter people said he should be taken to the hospital.So the cops escorted Dahmer back to his apartment with Sinthasomphone, where the cops perused his department, and Dahmer showed the cops semi-naked pictures of the boy. After the police left, Dahmer killed Sinthasomphone by injecting more acid into his brain. This is a "light" retelling of this story.If there is one crucial thing that past serial killers can teach us, it's that they can only operate when society and police decide to look the other way. Dahmer was able to get away so long because his victims were gay men who the law didn't give a shit about. Dahmer, nor other serial killers, weren't some 4d chess playing masterminds, and every single one of them could have been caught early on had the police decided to do their jobs.Upvote1DownvoteShareShareQuixoticMarten•2y ago•Far LeftNot a huge fan of hisUpvote1DownvoteShareShareMizzGee•2y ago•Center LeftNo. He was quite deliberate in his actions. He planned, he made adjustments on his feet, he lied to law enforcement, he intimidated neighbors. In prison, he taunted other inmates. He was damaged, but not insane.Upvote1DownvoteShareShareBenMullen2•2y ago•Centrist Democratof your 4 lines of text:conprison seems finethey should get exact what is prescribed TO them, never things they want because they want it.ProUpvote1DownvoteShareSharefailedtalkshowhost•2y ago•Center LeftHe took things too far.Upvote1DownvoteShareSharedanceswithronin•2y ago•IndependentThese violent delights have violent ends.Obviously I think he was a total nutcase. And I think he got what was coming to him.Upvote1DownvoteShareShareu/Tron_1981 avatarTron_1981•2y ago•Edited 2y ago•Pragmatic ProgressiveHe murdered (and ate) multiple people, all being a very specific demographic of victims. Even if I believed he should’ve been sent to a mental health facility (I don't), the insanity plea, which is already very difficult and rare to get, no longer applied to him. While I'm not a fan of the death penalty, I don't feel any sympathy over the way he went out.You asked what we think, but what about you?Upvote1DownvoteShareShareJust_a_reddit_duck•1y ago•Bad personUpvote1DownvoteShareShare[deleted]OP•1y ago•Idk, I think he's a very sick person. Someone who the system failed at every level and as much a victim as his victims.Upvote1DownvoteShareShare3 more repliesNimishApte•2y ago•Social DemocratI wouldn't support his torture. But he was tortured to death, I wouldn't oppose it either.Upvote-4DownvoteShareShare2localboi•2y ago•SocialistSo you support tortureUpvote3DownvoteShareShare7 more repliesEdSmelly•2y ago•Democratic SocialistPeople don’t just wake up one morning and decide that they want to be a serial killer. Dahmer was “trained” from infancy to be a killer.Upvote-4DownvoteShareShare[deleted]OP•2y ago•The meds his mother was on?